Camera basics

DSLR --> digital single lens reflex
why DSLR have huge lenses
Because they have a number of lens inside one lens.
the need of so many lenses are

What happens is that a single convex lens would also have been sufficient, but with only convex lens the light rays refract differently in different parts of the lens.
The point where parallel light rays converge is called the focal point.
The focal point at which the light rays from the center converge differ from the focal point point at which the light rays from the ends converge, this is called spherical abbreviation.

The amount of refraction reduces as we move towards the edges, this leads to light rays not properly focussing the point at which they are intended to. Since the direction in which spherical abbreviation accurs for spherical lens is opposite from spherical abbreviation in concave, the spherical abbreviation of convex lens can be corrected by using concave lens.



Also as refractive index is inversely proportional to wavelength
wavelength R>G>B
which means refraction for red is least and most for blue. This leads to spllitting of a light rays into it's constituents. which is called chromatic abbreviation.

To prevent this a series of lenses are utilized to resolve the errors of one lens. That is why the lens size is large.

focal length is measured in millimeters,
it is distance between the point where the light rays converge inside the lens, to the image sensor 
Video link --> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EL9J3Km6wxI


Wide angle lenses have short focal length


Auto focus works by
the camera keeps on changing the focus until the images is blurred out, or the spot we have touched is blurred out. The blur will keep on reducing. Once the blur starts to increse again, that is point of right focus.




SHALLOW depth of field
great video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o5thzx1JVvk

changing the focus, changes the plane of focus of camera. Plane of focus is plane parallel to the camera sensor. This is region which is most in focus, Everything near or far from it is out of focus. 
But the plane of focus is very small and sometimes we can't get the entire subject focussed. TO help with this we have the aperture. The aperture decides the depth of the field. A higher valuer of aperture means a larger depth of field and visa versa. The depth of field is 2/3 after  and 1/3 before plane of focus. So to take higher field of photos like landscape we should focus roughly at 1/3 distance and then click the photo

Images captures are inverted. 



Earlier cameras used to have a view finder and a camera lens. The view finder was used to see what the camera see's. But the view from the viewfinder was slightly shifted in focus. 
why single lens reflex camera

A single-lens reflex camera (SLR) is a camera that typically uses a mirror and prism system (hence "reflex" from the mirror's reflection) that permits the photographer to view through the lens and see exactly what will be captured. With twin lens reflex and rangefinder cameras, the viewed image could be significantly different from the final image. When the shutter button is pressed on most SLRs, the mirror flips out of the light path, allowing light to pass through to the light receptor and the image to be captured.

The mirror is placed at 45 degrees on the main path of light. When the click button is pressed the mirror flips, blocking the view finder for a very small amount of time. There is a prism at the top used to invert the image

Series of action
button pressed->mirror flips out of the way of the sensor->shutter opens and exposes the film.-->shutter closes and then the mirror comes down 

large shutter time gives bright images but leads to motion blur.

Actually the shutter moves at the same rate, but the difference between the blades is reduced. 
As the blades move over the image, which means that the top of the image is slightly older than the bottom of the picture by fraction of second
This also leads to the images being slightly tilted when filming from the window of a moving car. because the top portion is a little tilted

great video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CmjeCchGRQo

----------------Difference between DSLR vs mirrorless camera
mirrorless cameras don't have the 45 degree lens, instead the image is directly recorded by the sensor which is passed on to the digital viewfinder or digital screen. This makes these cameras small and size 



small focal length means wider lens


---------------------Aperture
it is the hole in the lens
Controls the amount of light entering into the cameras sensor
pupil is analogus to aperture

unit is f-number of f-stop

f-number is inversely proportional to diameter

Aperture has direct effect or depth of field

aperture is directly proportional to depth of field


aperture with small f-number is a fast lens
eg f1.4 , f2.8 used in night photgraphy

max aperture of a lens decreases(increase in f number) as we zoom in. These lenses are called 
variable aperture lenses


larger aperture lets in more light allowing us to use
small iso and faster shutter speed which reduces motion blur
more iso means more noise

there are two types of shutters
1) rolling --> physical (read above)
2)electronic shutter--> used during video recording

electronic shutters does not have any moving parts
sensor is read line by line
they are silent
faster shutter speed

cons
 rolling shutter --> distortion while recording from car
 banding--> tube lights and tv(but mechanical shutters also have this)
 
 
 
 ISO
 it is the senstivity of the sensor
 
 so for night shots and sports events where fast
 shutter speed is required, photographer pump up the ISO
 But it has it's own drawbacks
 
 Now suppose we had a microphone and  we wanted to record a very faint sound. To do this we increase the senstivity of the microphone. Although now my faint noise can be listened but other unwanted noise also gets amplified leading to a lot of noise
 same things happens with increasing the iso of the camera
 Low iso will yield best image quality
 
 
 ----------shutter speed
 
length of time the sensor is exposed to light

depth of field nice video 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=34jkJoN8qOI


how focus works
https://www.bhphotovideo.com/explora/photography/tips-and-solutions/how-focus-works

