SNAP
Snap is a software packaging and deployment system developed
by canonical(company--> ubuntu also developed by them)
Packages are called snaps and the tool for using them is snapd, work across
a range of linux distributions and allow upstream software developers to
distribute their applications directly to users.

Snap are self-contained applications running in a sandbox with mediated 
access to the host system.Snap was originally designed for IOT but later 
was ported to work for cloud, desktop and applications

Ubuntu market place  = snap store allows developers to publish their applications
directly to users.

With traditional Linux package management approaches like APT and YUM, the applications are packages
and distributed as part of the operating system. This creates a delay between application development
and it's deployment for end-users. In contrast application developers can publich their applications
in the snap store and get them directly to users without any interventions from distribution maintainers


All apps in the snapstore are maintained by the user, snapstore does not enforce anything onto them,
timely updates, security updates to name a few.
Snap store automatically performs a malware check and also tests the applications.

Snaps can be downloaded without the snapstore from the developer website

Snaps are self contained packages that work across a range od Linux distributions. This is unlike
traditional Linux package management approaches, which require specifically adapted packages
for each linux distributions.

Snap file formate is a single compressed filesystem. 
snaps have extension .snap


Add more---


Automatic and atomic updates:
Snapd checks if snaps have update available, and installs them in the background using atomic operations

Automatic operations-->

These updates can be reverted and use delta encoding to reduce their download size.
Delta encoding --> storing and transmitting data in the forms differences between sequential 
data rather than rather than complete files.

Snapcraft is a tool for developers to packages their programs in the Snap format. Runs on almost all 
different distributions, snapcraft builds the packages in a virtual machine using multipass(pata karna kya hai)
in order to ensure the result is same. Snap craft supports a lot od build tools and programming
languages.

Snapd not loading packages, solutions --> 
snap changes
sudo snap abort PID 


Snap vs apt:
1. Apt is easier for user, snap is easier for package creators
2. Apt is executed way fast
3. With apt we have complete controll over when we want to update, snap follows windows 10 like updates

Snap contains all the required files, where .deb packages have dependencies to other packages.
so snappy is larger in size, so snap does not have any external dependencies, so ok.

Why this split in the linux community why make snapy when we have apt package manager
Snapy is an attempt to solve package availability and package distribution.
It is not here to completely replace deb

Problem is deb packages for one version of ubuntu does not work for any other version of 
ubuntu. ubuntu debs --> made for each version. 
This means if I want to release a new version of an application and not wait on distro 
maintainers to include it in the repository(which takes a lot of time) then I have to provide
over 20 packages to cover the majority of Linux distros and still that does not cover everything

Snaps can be integrated into other distros, so no longer distor specific.

Flatpaks and AppImages also solve these issues.

1. FLAPTAK
2. LINUX FILE SYSTEM.
3. APT
4. Bashrc
5. Pipes
6. Make your own snap package
7. .deb
8. what is distro
